## 10 signs of an unhealthy relationship

- intensity: when someone expresses very extreme feelings and over-the-top behaviour that feels overwhelming.
- manipulation: when someone tries to control your decisions, actions, or emotions.
- sabotage: when someone purposely ruins your reputation, achievements, or success.
- guilting: when someone makes you feel responsible for their actions or makes you feel like it's your job to keep them happy.
- deflecting responsibility: when someone repeatedly makes excuses for their unhealthy behaviour.
- possessiveness: when someone is jealous to a point where they try to control who you spend time with and what you do.
- isolation: when someone keeps you away from friends, family, or other people.
- belittling: when someone does and says things to make you feel bad about yourself.
- volatility: when someone has a really strong, unpredictable reaction that makes you feel scared, confused or intimidated.
- betrayal: when someone is disloyal or acts in an intentionally dishonest way.

## 10 signs of a healthy relationship

- comfortable pace: the relationship moves at a speed that feels enjoyable for each person.
- trust: confidence that your partner won't do anything to hurt you or ruin the relationship.
- respect: you value one another's beliefs and opinions, and love one another for who you are as a person.
- fun: you enjoy spending time together and bring out the best in each other.
- healthy conflict: openly and respectfully discussing issues and confronting disagreements non-judgementally.
- honesty: you can be truthful and candid without fearing how the other person will respond.
- independence: you have space to be yourself outside of the relationship.
- equality: the relationship feels balanced and everyone puts the same effort into the success of the relationship.
- taking responsibility: owining your own actions and words.
- kindness: you are caring and empathetic to one another, and provide comfort and support.

