## Introduction to AI

### What is AI?

Simply put, AI is the creation of software that imitates human behaviors and capabilities. Key workloads include:

- Machine learning - This is often the foundation for an AI system, and is the way we "teach" a computer model to make prediction and draw conclusions from data.
- Anomaly detection - The capability to automatically detect errors or unusual activity in a system.
- Computer vision - The capability of software to interpret the world visually through cameras, video, and images.
- Natural language processing - The capability for a computer to interpret written or spoken language, and respond in kind.
- Knowledge mining - The capability to extract information from large volumes of often unstructured data to create a searchable knowledge store.

## [Understand machine learning](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/get-started-ai-fundamentals/2-understand-machine-learn)

### How machine learning works

So how do machines learn?

The answer is, from data. In today's world, we create huge volumes of data as we go about our everyday lives. From the text messages, emails, and social media posts we send to the photographs and videos we take on our phones, we generate massive amounts of information. More data still is created by millions of sensors in our homes, cars, cities, public transport infrastructure, and factories.

Data scientists can use all of that data to train machine learning models that can make predictions and inferences based on the relationships they find in the data.

### Machine learning in Microsoft Azure

Microsoft Azure provides the Azure Machine Learning service - a cloud-based platform for creating, managing, and publishing machine learning models. Azure Machine Learning provides the following features and capabilities:

Feature | Capability
--------|-----------
Automated machine learning | This feature enables non-experts to quickly create an effective machine learning model from data.
Azure Machine Learning designer | A graphical interface enabling no-code development of machine learning solutions.
Data and compute management | Cloud-based data storage and compute resources that professional data scientists can use to run data experiment code at scale.
Pipelines | Data scientists, software engineers, and IT operations professionals can define pipelines to orchestrate model training, deployment, and management tasks.

## [Understand anomaly detection](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/get-started-ai-fundamentals/3-understand-anomaly-detection)

Imagine you're creating a software system to monitor credit card transactions and detect unusual usage patterns that might indicate fraud. Or an application that tracks activity in an automated production line and identifies failures. Or a racing car telemetry system that uses sensors to proactively warn engineers about potential mechanical failures before they happen.

These kinds of scenario can be addressed by using anomaly detection - a machine learning based technique that analyzes data over time and identifies unusual changes.

## [Understand computer vision](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/get-started-ai-fundamentals/4-understand-computer-vision)

### Computer Vision models and capabilities

Most computer vision solutions are based on machine learning models that can be applied to visual input from cameras, videos, or images. The following table describes common computer vision tasks.

Task | Description
---- | -----------
Image classification | Image classification involves training a machine learning model to classify images based on their contents. For example, in a traffic monitoring solution you might use an image classification model to classify images based on the type of vehicle they contain, such as taxis, buses, cyclists, and so on.
Object detection | Object detection machine learning models are trained to classify individual objects within an image, and identify their location with a bounding box. For example, a traffic monitoring solution might use object detection to identify the location of different classes of vehicle.
Semantic segmentation | Semantic segmentation is an advanced machine learning technique in which individual pixels in the image are classified according to the object to which they belong. For example, a traffic monitoring solution might overlay traffic images with "mask" layers to highlight different vehicles using specific colors.
Image analysis | You can create solutions that combine machine learning models with advanced image analysis techniques to extract information from images, including "tags" that could help catalog the image or even descriptive captions that summarize the scene shown in the image.
Face detection, analysis, and recognition | Face detection is a specialized form of object detection that locates human faces in an image. This can be combined with classification and facial geometry analysis techniques to recognize individuals based on their facial features.
Optical character recognition (OCR) | Optical character recognition is a technique used to detect and read text in images. You can use OCR to read text in photographs (for example, road signs or store fronts) or to extract information from scanned documents such as letters, invoices, or forms.

